# Drucker, Ramsay, Moretti

Ramsay and Drucker’s critique of Moretti was based on the work they had themselves done and believed to be of opposite findings then to Moretti’s. If we abolished externally-produced data sets a lot of great work that has already been done and proven itself worthy would be lost in the digital humanities world. In this blog post I will be arguing that we should not abolish established datasets because they are seen more in the sciences but rather we should continue to work and learn from them to further the findings in the digital humanities world. 

In Drucker’s article, Humanities Approach to Graphical Display, she discusses the forms of finding information and the way of representing it. Trucker believes that data is an observation that one was not effectively looking for, which is not how she sees people who work in humanities should find their work. She explains that instead of data, capta information is what the humanities needs. Capta is information effectively taken from the source and then used to create visualizations though graphs and tables with the information found. The difference between the two is small but it is there and it is what Drucker believes is the only way to go about it which she clearly states here, “Humanities are committed to the concept of knowledge as interpretation and that apprehension of the phenomena of physical, social, cultural world is throuhl contracted and constitutive acts, not mechanistic or naturalistic realist representations of pre-existing, self-evident information.” (Drucker, 2).

Throughout Moretti’s Graphs, Maps, Trees, he explains how those three topples can be applied to literary analysis in the humanities. Moretti demonstrates different graphs in his article from data findings. This is a clear visual data representation that has used the “externally-produced data” Moretti found. Although it differs from Drucker’s graphs and visualizations, it still provides information, visualizations, and data. Although, I do understand Drucker’s point where all information is a representation of knowledge on how we perceive information and what is not expressed is not told or understood, but we cannot just turn a blind eye on the commonly used data collection. 

<iframe style='width: 452px; height: 296px;' src='//voyant-tools.org/tool/Trends/?query=data&query=interpretation*&query=visual&query=form&mode=&corpus=6b140164aa0437151f23a559f2b43a7a'></iframe>

In the visualization provided, you can see the difference in how much certain words I chose were talked about in each of the readings. In order to understand the differences you can see that data and interpretation are Drucker’s focal point in her article, that those two go hand-in-hand compared to Ramsay’s where his article talked a lot less of the two but they do touch base at a point as well with form. Ramsay’s was more involved with the form of the new, of text and of criticism. Here you can see that visualization for both Ramsay and Moretti were almost no where in their articles but form and data play a role in both. I think that these findings help with the understanding of where all three authors stand in their views of the digital humanities. Form plays a large part in Moretti’s as he not only discusses empirical, numerical, statistical data that a computer interprets into a for but rather making a form that you can continuously interpret forms within it. In the digital humanities, one must be open to interpretation of anything in any form. Drucker believes that different visualizations of graphs and models create more personal and open to interpretation data where the readers and viewers of those can to themselves gather the understandings with what they believe to be shown and what information has been provided. More gives us the basic information, his graph, and his findings. This does not mean that it is less interpretive or less informative, it is just a way that gets to the point, tells you what is there and you yourself as a person of digital humanities should always be questioning why that is what it is, how the data was collected, how you would have done it, and so on. Humanities is about questioning and learning and then questioning again. We can not get caught up on the limits some people give us with their data or the lack of understanding a visualization of information but rather we should continue to push to learn more about the data shown and find different perspectives and gatherings of the data as well.

Although, Moretti’s “visualizations” of his data and his findings are much different than that of Drucker’s, does not mean we should get rid of the way of finding data but rather we should learn to interpret it how we want, how it was meant to be interpreted, and who to further learn about the data and visualizations. I believe that humanities is not a place where there is only one answer but rather there are no true answers. One can find and learn and interpret everything from a different point of view, from a different set of data and from a different form of visualization and to get rid of any of that would be a step back for the humanities as we are only starting to scratch the surface of it all. 
